.\" Emacs, -*- nroff -*- please
.TH XOSD 1xosd "January 2001" "X OSD cat"
.SH NAME
osd_cat - X on-screen file displayer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B osd_cat
[\fIOPTION\fR] [\fIFILE\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Display FILE, or standard input, on X screen.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-top\fR
Display at top of screen
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-bottom\fR
Display at bottom of screen
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-font\fR=\fIFONT\fR
This option specifies the font to be used for displaying the text. The default is \fIfixed\fR.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-color\fR=\fICOLOR\fR
This option specifies the color to be used for displaying the text. The default is \fIred\fR.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delay\fR=\fITIME\fR
This option specifies the number of seconds the text is displayed. The default is \fI5\fR seconds.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-lines\fR=\fILINES\fR
This option specifies the number of lines to scroll the display over. The default is \fI5\fR.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-offset\fR=\fIOFFSET\fR
This option specifies the offset from the top or bottom of screen the text is displayed. The default is \fI0\fR.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-shadow\fR=\fISHADOW\fR
This option specifies the offset of the text shadow. The default is \fI0\fR, which means no text shadow is created.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-age\fR=\fISCROLL_AGE\fR
This option affects screen redrawing. If SCROLL_AGE seconds pass
before a new line is ready (for example, you're reading from a pipe),
the display is cleared instead of being scrolled. The default is
\fI0\fR, which means all lines are added to the scroll.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-wait 
This option also affects screen redrawing. When there is data ready to
be put on screen, this option will cause osd_cat to wait until the
display is clear. An alternative to scrolling.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display this help and exit
.PP
With no FILE, or when FILE is -, read standard input.
.SH AUTHOR
Martijn van de Streek <martijn@foodfight.org>, Some patching done by
Malcolm Valentine <farkit@iprimus.com.au> and Tim Wright
<tim@ignavus.net>.
.br
xosd was written by Andre Renaud <andre@ignavus.net> and is maintained
by Tim Wright <tim@ignavus.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
More information on the X OSD Library and its author can be found on
.UR http://www.ignavus.net/software.html
http://www.ignavus.net/software.html
.UE
.SH COPYRIGHT
It is distributed under the GNU General Public License.
