.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.TH xosd_init 3xosd "2002-06-25" "X OSD Library"
.SH NAME
xosd_init \- Create a new xosd window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <xosd.h>
.sp
.BI "xosd* xosd_init(char * " font ", char * " colour ", int " timeout , 
.BI "xosd_pos " pos ", int " offset ", int " shadow_offset ", int " number_lines );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xosd_init
creates a new
.I xosd
window that can be used to display textual or numerical data on
a X11 display in a unmanaged, shaped window that appears to be
transparent. 
It provides a similar effect to the on-screen display of many
televisions and video recorders.

The
.I xosd
window is placed at the top or bottom of the display, according to the
value of
.I pos.
From this base point the display is moved
.I offset 
pixels, so desktop features such as GNOME or KDE panels can be
avoided.
Initially the window shows no data;
when data is displayed (using
.BI xosd_display (3xosd) )
it appears in the font specified by
.I font
and in the colour specified by
.I colour.
To increase readibility (and 'cos it looks cool) a black shadow is
drawn beneath the main text.
The number of pixels that this shadow is offset from the main text is
specified by the
.I shadow_offset 
argument.
After
.I timeout
seconds the data is removed from the window.

Execution of the program is not halted when displaying data, rather
a separate thread is spawned to handle the removal of the window from
the display after 
.I timeout
seconds.
See
.BI xosd_display (3xosd)
for details.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfont\fP 1i
The font name as a string that is in XLFD format.
The easiest way to get a XLFD is to use a program such as 
.BI xfontsel (1)
or
.BI gfontsel (1).
.IP \fIcolour\fP 1i
A colour name as string that is in a format which
.BI XParseColor (3x)
recognises.
.IP \fItimeout\fP 1i
Time, in seconds, that the text will be on screen before it gets removed.
.IP \fIpos\fP 1i
Were the display will be positioned.
One of
.B XOSD_top
or
.B XOSD_bottom
(for the top or the bottom of the screen respectively).
.IP \fIoffset\fP 1i
Offset from the top or bottom of the screen, in pixels.
.IP \fIshadow_offset\fP 1i
Offset of black shadow from main text, in pixels.
.IP \fInumber_lines\fP 1i
The number of lines to display on the screen.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, a pointer to a
.I xosd
structure will be returned, otherwise
.I NULL
will be returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xosd_display (3xosd),
.BR xfontsel (1),
.BR gfontsel (1),
.BR XParseColor (3x)
