.\" Emacs, -*- nroff -*- please
.TH XOSD 3xosd "December 2000" "X OSD Library"
.SH NAME
xosd - X on-screen display library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <xosd.h>
.sp
.BI "xosd* xosd_init(char * " font ", char * " colour ", int " timeout , 
.BI "		     xosd_pos " pos ", int " offset ", int " shadow_offset, 
.BI "                int " number_lines ); 
.sp
.BI "int xosd_uninit (xosd* " osd );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_display (xosd* " osd ", int " line ,
.BI "                  xosd_command " command ", " ... );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_is_onscreen(xosd* " osd );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_wait_until_no_display(xosd* " osd );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_hide (xosd* " osd );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_show (xosd* " osd );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_set_pos (xosd* " osd ", xosd_pos " pos );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_set_offset (xosd* " osd ", int " offset );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_set_align (xosd* " osd ", xosd_align " align)
.sp
.BI "int xosd_set_shadow_offset (xosd* " osd ", int " shadow_offset );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_set_timeout (xosd* " osd ", int " timeout );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_set_font (xosd* " osd ", char* " font );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_set_colour (xosd* " osd ", char* " colour );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_get_colour (xosd* " osd ,
.BI "                     int* " red ", int* " green ", int* " blue );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_scroll (xosd* "osd ", int " lines );
.sp
.BI "int xosd_get_number_lines ( xosd* "osd "); "
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfont\fP 1i
String with a font name (in XLFD format)
.IP \fIcolour\fP 1i
A color name string (in a format which
.BI XParseColor (3x)
recognises)
.IP \fItimeout\fP 1i
Time the text will be on screen before it gets removed.
.IP \fIpos\fP 1i
One of
.B XOSD_top
or
.B XOSD_bottom
(for the top or the bottom of the screen)
.IP \fIoffset\fP 1i
Offset from the top or bottom of the screen.
.IP \fIshadow_offset\fP 1i
Offset of black shadow from main text.
.IP \fIosd\fP 1i
The on-screen display object to act on.
.IP \fIlines\fP 1i
The number of lines to scroll up.
.IP \fIcommand\fp 1i
One of 
.B XOSD_percentage
,
.B XOSD_slider
,
.B XOSD_string
or
.B XOSD_printf
. XOSD_percentage take a single int argument (from 0 - 100) and displays the
appropriate number of bars, XOSD_slider is similar, except it only displays
a line at the exact percentage required, rather than a full bar up to that
point, XOSD_string takes a single char *, and XOSD_printf takes a print 
style string, and its arguments.
.SH RETURN VALUES
All fuctions return 0 on success and -1 on failure, except xosd_display and  
xosd_is_onscreen.
.IP \fIxosd_display\fP 1i
Returns the percentage (between 1 and 100) for 
.B XOSD_percentage
or
.B XOSD_slider
, or the number of characters displayed for
.B XOSD_string. 
-1 is returned on failure.
.IP \fIxosd_is_onscreen\fP 1i
Returns 1 if xosd is currently displaying data on-screen, 0 if it is not,
and -1 on failure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
xosd is a library for displaying an on-screen display (like the one on
many TVs) on your X display.
.sp
The latest version can be found on
http://www.ignavus.net/software.html
.PP
It is distributed under the GNU General Public License.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs at the moment.
.sp
Bug reports can be sent to tnw13@cosc.canterbury.ac.nz

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <xosd.h>

int main (int argc, char *argv[])
{
	xosd *osd;

	osd = xosd_init ("fixed", "LawnGreen", 3, XOSD_top, 0, 1, 1);

	xosd_display (osd, 0, XOSD_string, "Example XOSD output");

	xosd_wait_until_no_display(osd);

	xosd_uninit (osd);

	return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
Martijn van de Streek <martijn@foodfight.org>, Some patching by Malcolm Valentine <farkit@iprimus.com.au> and Tim Wright <tim@ignavus.net>.
.PP
xosd was written by Andre Renaud <andre@ignavus.net> and is maintained by Tim Wright <tim@ignavus.net>.
.SH SEE ALSO
More information on the X OSD Library and its author can be found on
http://www.ignavus.net/software.html. Each function has its own man-page.
See there for more information.
